So far so good.
We have been talking about the technical background for linear regression.
We have been talking about the underlying optimization algorithm we have been talking about.
Gradient descent we have been talking about a concrete implementation how to use linear regression how
to fit the model.
And finally how to make predictions we do model but we have to check whether it is going to work fine
or not.
So that's why we have to talk about our squared statistic which is defined as follows.
R-Squared is ECOs to one of minus r s as divided by TS as.
OK so what is R-squared measures the accuracy of the regression modals.
It is the square of the correlation coefficient or.
So it measures how strong a linear relationship is between two variables.
In this case the two varietals are the size of the House and the price of the house the higher the value
the better the model fits the data are s as is the residual sum of squares.
It measures the variability left unexplained.
After performing the regression basically the residual sum of squares.
This is what we have been discussing in one of the previous lectures.
We just have to sum our bodies APS-C loan terms the absolute one it is the difference between the first
sample as far as the price is concerned and the prediction by the model.
OK so this is the short term then we can define the error term for the second sample.
Okay so there is the price of the house in the training data set and we have a prediction by the model.
And of course there going to be some error term.
It is true for Epsilon's 3 Absolom for up to absolutely 8.
So the mean square error or is E-Class did some of these error terms.
So basically H x minus Y squared.
It is the main squared error.
Okay so this is how we calculate this crazy jus a sum of squares age X minus Y squared and we have to
sum them up and TTSS stands for total sum of squares which measures the total variance in Y.
So basically y is going to be the prices in the training data set.
Dimmu is the mean of the house prices in the original dataset and of course we have to calculate the
variance.
This is the exact formula how we calculate the variance for a random variable.
Why.
Okay so we just have to consider the prices we can get these values from the data set.
Then we have to calculate the Dimino of these values and this is how we are able to end up with the
variance for the price in the training data set.
Okay so this is how we calculate to Yesus total sum of squares and R-Squared is close to 1 of minus
r s as divided by DSS.
The higher the better the model fits the data.
OK so let's check our square the value in our example the R-squared value is 0.2 49 which is very very
small number.
Okay the maximum value of R-Squared is equal to 1 which means that we are able to explain the linear
relationship between two random variables size and price.
If this value is 0 at 49 basically we can come to the conclusion that there is a high probability that
there is no linear relationship between the two features.
Of course there are so huge error terms as you can see which means that lots of lots of points are quite
far away from the linear line that we can come to the conclusion just taking a closer look at the Plaut
that this linear regression model is not the best one possible but if we take a look at our square you
we can make sure again that okay 0.14 nine is so small that we can come to the conclusion that we are
not able to find a linear relationship between the size of the House and the price of the house.
Okay.
So this is how we can use linear regression and making predictions.
But what's more important is that we are able to analyze the algorithm whether it is working fine or
not.
We have both means square there or any we that half of the R-squared value are square the value the
higher the better it is usually around 1.
So 0.8 0.9 or 0.75 is still okay but 0 to 49 is quite small.
So we can come for the conclusion that this linear regression model is not the best one possible.
Thanks for watching.